# Prediction of three classes of Glucose Transporters
#Introduction
Glucose is the essential substance that provide energy to the human body to perform various activities smoothly, whereas, carbohydrate present in various foods is the substantial source for glucose[1-4]. As it serves as a vital source of energy in mammalian cells, glucose transporter plays an important role in cell signaling and precursor for biomolecule synthesis[3]. More Interestingly, the human body consumes approximately 20% of oxygen and 25% of the glucose, whereas, human brain represents only 2% of total body mass of an adult [3,5]. In addition to this fact, the continuous supply of the energy is an absolute requirement for maintaining cell growth to life. Therefore, the transport of glucose across the plasma membrane into the intracellular fluid (cytosol) is far more important and as a fundamental process for metabolism, development, growth and homeostasis. Furthermore, three families of glucose transporters have been identified in human, including the major facilitator superfamily glucose facilitators (GLUTs), the sodium‐driven glucose symporters (SGLTs) and the Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEETs)[3,4,6].

Recently deep learning is the most dominating approach and already applied in many different fields such as Natural Language Processing (NLP), Computer vision, bio-informatics and computational biology to accomplish various tasks. One of the promising pre-trained language model was studied which uses embedding vectors to classify protein sequences. BERT is an open-sourced NLP pre-trained model from Google[7]. We used BERT pre-trained models to extract features from input protein sequences. This study attempts to apply BERT pre-trained models with SVM classifier in prediction of three families of glucose transporters. We have performed some preprocessing steps including data collection, feature generation, feature standardization, imbalance problem handling and classification
#References
Wright, E., B. Hirayama, and D. Loo, Active sugar transport in health and disease. Journal of internal medicine, 2007. 261(1): p. 32-43.
Calvo, M.B., et al., Potential role of sugar transporters in cancer and their relationship with anticancer therapy.International journal of endocrinology, 2010. 2010.
Deng, D. and N. Yan, GLUT, SGLT, and SWEET: Structural and mechanistic investigations of the glucose transporters. Protein Science, 2016. 25(3): p. 546-558.
Adekola, K., S.T. Rosen, and M. Shanmugam, Glucose transporters in cancer metabolism. Current opinion in oncology, 2012. 24(6): p. 650.
Bélanger, M., I. Allaman, and P.J. Magistretti, Brain energy metabolism: focus on astrocyte-neuron metabolic cooperation. Cell metabolism, 2011. 14(6): p. 724-738.
Lizák, B., et al., Glucose Transport and Transporters in the Endomembranes. International journal of molecular sciences, 2019. 20(23): p. 5898.
Devlin, J., et al., Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805, 2018.
